<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>X: A Runaway</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Runaway</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Vacation had come, and the Indians were about to start on their annual summer buffalo hunt. Some of the scholars were to accompany their parents, and others, after a brief home visit, were to return to the school and continue their studies while the tribe was away.</p>
			<p>In the three villages there was great hurry and bustle in every family. Pack saddles were brought out of the caches where they had lain through the winter. The task of mending them fell to the older people of the household, while the younger folk busied themselves in retrimming their more ornate trappings. Goods not necessary for the journey were stored away, and the dwellings were made ready for the long absence.</p>
			<p>At last there remained but one day before the time set for the departure of the tribe. In the afternoon I bade my parents goodbye, and reluctantly returned to the school. Quite a number of the boys and girls had already come back, among them Lester and Warren. Brush had not left the school, so on my arrival I received from the three boys the usual greetings we accorded each other when one returned after an absence. We four paced the long front porch, arm in arm, for a while, and then went and sat down in the shade of a tree.</p>
			<p>“Where is Edwin?” asked Brush; “isn’t he coming back?”</p>
			<p>“No,” I replied; “his mother wanted him to; but his father didn’t want to leave him behind, so he’s going on the hunt.”</p>
			<p>“He’ll have lots of fun,” said Warren; “I wish I could go!”</p>
			<p>The next morning, immediately after breakfast, Brush borrowed the superintendent’s spyglass, and we went to a high point whence we could watch the movements of the people in the village nearest the school. We took turns in looking through the glass. Already the head of the great caravan had gone behind the first hill, but my family had not yet started. We looked toward Edwin’s house, and saw that the people were just moving. It was a wonderful sight to us, the long procession on the winding trail, like a great serpent of varied and brilliant colors. At last I saw my father mount a horse and move forward, the rest of the family followed him, and I watched them until they finally disappeared beyond the green hills. It was nearly noon when the end of the line went out of sight.</p>
			<p>While the movements were going on in the village, we could hear the neighing of horses, the barking of dogs, and the hum of voices, but now there was a stillness in the deserted village which brought upon us a sense of loneliness that was hard to overcome. We slowly returned to the Mission and ate our noonday meal without speaking. There seemed to be a general depression among the remaining pupils at the school. A silence pervaded all the surroundings which made each boy wish to retire from the other and to be alone.</p>
			<p>At breakfast, the next morning, there was the same sense of stillness; even the superintendent and the teachers at their table seemed to be homesick, and they passed the dishes to each other in silence. The reading of the Scriptures and the prayer of the superintendent was in a tone that added to the gloominess which had taken possession of our simple little souls.</p>
			<p>As we were slowly marching out of the dining-room, when the worship was over, the superintendent stopped Brush and said to him:</p>
			<p>“I want you to go after the mail this morning; go on horseback so as to get back soon. I have some work for you to do this afternoon. Take Dolly, and use the large saddle; the other one needs mending.”</p>
			<p>“Let’s go down to the spring,” said Lester to Warren and me.</p>
			<p>So while Brush went to the barn to saddle up, we three went to the spring and sat under an elm that stood near by.</p>
			<p>“Say, boys, I’m going to the hunt!” said Lester, startling us with the sudden announcement; “I heard that two families down at the Wood-eaters’ village can’t get away for two days yet, and I’m going down there so I can go with them. The Omahas always wait on the Wa-tae (Elkhorn River), for those that are last.”</p>
			<p>“If you’re going, I’m going too,” spoke up Warren; “I don’t want to stay here.”</p>
			<p>“If you two go, I’m going!” I exclaimed.</p>
			<p>“All right, let’s all go then,” said Lester, rising. “We must hurry up; someone might see us!”</p>
			<p>We followed a narrow path that led through a ravine just beyond the spring. We were in the greatest excitement; every little sound aroused within us the fear of detection, and we frequently sought for a hiding place, while we carefully avoided all well-beaten paths. Silently we plodded our way through the bushes until we came to a hill where there were no trees, then we ran as fast as our legs could carry us for another wooded place.</p>
			<p>We stopped a moment when passing to take a look at the village. Silence prevailed. Not a living thing was astir. Three whirlwinds chased each other along the winding paths between the houses, making funnel-shaped dust clouds as they sped on.</p>
			<p>“The ghosts have entered the village,” said Lester, in our own language, and in a melancholy tone; “they always do that as soon as the living leave their houses!”</p>
			<p>Entering the ravine for which we were making, we continued our journey. The nettle weeds caused us much suffering, for we were barefooted, and wore short trousers. We came to an opening; before us lay the road to the Agency; we looked cautiously around, then started to cross it to go into another ravine that headed toward the big village, when the snorting of a horse was heard with startling distinctness.</p>
			<p>“Quick! quick! get down!” exclaimed Lester in a loud whisper, as he dropped into the gully of the old abandoned wagon-road.</p>
			<p>Warren and I followed hastily, pulling the tall grass over us. We heard the footsteps of the horse come nearer and nearer to our hiding place. It stopped and reached its head down, and began to nibble the grass under which I lay concealed. I looked up through a slight opening, and, behold! there on the horse sat Brush with one leg thrown over the pommel of the saddle, busily reading a book. I could see the boy’s eyes and his lips moving as he read, and at times it seemed as though his eyes were looking right into mine. I was in great suspense while the horse stood there, but at length Brush picked up the rains and urged Dolly on. As soon as he disappeared at the bend of the road, we rose and darted across and ran down to the ravine.</p>
			<p>We entered the big village of sod houses through which we had to pass. Here, too, we felt the sense of desolation that pervaded even the hills around. Somewhere from the midst of these peculiar dwellings came the doleful howl of a stray dog, the only sound that broke the stillness of the place. What sensations my companions experienced upon hearing the melancholy wail of that deserted beast I do not know; but, like the rapid advance of a fire over the prairie, a thrill that made the very roots of my hair creep vibrated through my body. Involuntarily we paused to listen; the long-drawn moan came to a close, and the ghostly echoes carried on the sound as though to mock the lost creature.</p>
			<p>“Let’s run!” exclaimed Lester, in a frightened tone; “let’s get away from here!”</p>
			<p>And so we sped on until, all out of breath, we were far beyond the limits of the village.</p>
			<p>The shadows of the hills and the trees were beginning to grow long as we reached the foot of the bluffs where lay the village of the Wood-eaters. We followed a narrow but well-beaten path, wending our way among the tall trees. Suddenly a dog, with tail rigid and erect, and hair bristling, came barking at us with savage fury.</p>
			<p>“ ‘Shta-du-ba! ‘Shta-du-ba!” called Lester, as he came near. “It is I, don’t you know me?”</p>
			<p>The dog, on hearing his name from a familiar voice, relaxed his aggressive appearance and assumed one of joyous welcome. He jumped upon us, licked our hands, wagged his whole body as well as his tail, and preceded us with leaps and barks of delight.</p>
			<p>We came to a clear space, and there before us against the deep shadows of the woods stood a solitary sod house, the smoke lazily ascending to the sky from the top of the dome-shaped roof, making a picture of simple contentment. In the projecting doorway stood a man looking intently in our direction. The serious expression of his face changed to one of pleasure and amusement as he descried the three schoolboys. When we were near enough for him to fully recognize us, his smile burst into a mirthful laugh in which we could not help joining, though to us our business was full of seriousness.</p>
			<p>“Woo-hoo!” he mildly exclaimed, “what important thing is it that has brought you here at this time, when all are about going away? Your mother left yesterday,” he said, addressing my companions, then turning to me remarked, “Your father must have gone today.”</p>
			<p>“We ran away from school because we want to go on the hunt,” explained Lester. “I know my mother has gone; but my uncle has not left yet, so we are going to him.”</p>
			<p>“He is still here, we all go tomorrow morning early; but you should have stayed at the House of Teaching; you would get more good there than by going on the hunt. You know the way to Me-chah’-pe’s house, just follow that path.”</p>
			<p>We trudged along to Me-chah’-pe’s house. The family had gathered about an outside fire, and were eating their supper in the dusk. Upon our coming into the light of the fire we were recognized; the mother and grown daughter greeted us with exclamations of surprise and sympathy; while the father and the two sons glanced at each other with expressions of amusement. A place was assigned us in the circle, and soon we were busily engaged with the simple fare placed before us by the good and hospitable mother.</p>
			<p>“Why do parents when they go away leave their children at the House of Teaching, I wonder?” commented the woman, as she apportioned the food for us. “Some people show no signs of affection for their sons and daughters until they sicken and die; then they tear their hair and rend the air with their loud wails. It is well enough while the parents are at home that they should place the young ones in the care of the White-chests; but, when going on a long journey like this, they should take the children with them.”</p>
			<p>By the side of every Indian house stands a raised platform made of poles, elevated upon posts, some seven or eight feet high, planted firmly in the ground. This platform is used for drying corn and squash, at the time of harvesting; but, through the summer when the people are at home, the young men and boys take possession of it, for sleeping in the open air. As weariness began to be felt, one by one, the family arose, and, without formality, each sought his place of rest. We schoolboys and the sons of Me-chah’-pe repaired to the platform, climbing the “stairs” made of a single log, with notches cut in it for steps.</p>
			<p>This was the first night I had ever spent out of doors. The novel experience, and the excitements of the day, filled my mind with strange speculations, and I lay awake long after my companions had gone to sleep. Now and then, I heard the chatter of birds and the whirring of their wings, as they flew by far above me, and I wondered if they could see in the darkness. The roar of the river filled the still air, and the crash of a tree uprooted by the current sent its echoes far and wide; then the sounds about me grew to faint murmurings, until I was conscious of them no more.</p>
			<p>When I awoke, the dawn was coming, and the stars were beginning to turn pale. There was a gentle stir in the tent near by; a tall man came out, and his shadowy form passed from view into the slowly rising mist. A woman moved noiselessly to the fireplace, and, bending over, began to gather the embers together, blowing them to life with her breath. The gray streak along the horizon slowly turned to a rosy hue; here and there the birds began drowsily to peep and twitter, then, when the sun shot its rays through the heavens, a thousand voices burst into rapturous song.</p>
			<p>My companions awoke, and one by one we climbed down the rude ladder to the ground.</p>
			<p>When we gathered for breakfast, the mother, as she helped the food, asked, “Where is Na-zhe’-de-ah?” (Lester.)</p>
			<p>Warren and I looked at each other; neither of us could explain his absence.</p>
			<p>“Call him,” said the good woman, addressing her son; “we must hurry, the sun is up!”</p>
			<p>No response came to the young man’s call. It was evident that Lester had slipped away before anyone was awake.</p>
			<p>Breakfast over, Me-chah’-pe and his sons saddled and packed the horses, while the wife and daughter gathered the various utensils. Warren and I tried to make ourselves useful by holding up the packs with our shoulders, as they ware being placed on the horses.</p>
			<p>Me-chah’-pe looked at Warren, then at me, as he shouldered his rifle, and said, “I am sorry that I have not enough horses for all of us to ride. You see those I have are heavily burdened; so we will have to do as our fathers did, take one step forward, then another, and keeping stepping forward until we get to the place where we are going. Are we ready? Here we go!”</p>
			<p>And we did go⁠—horses, dogs, and all. Soon we were joined by the man of the lonely sod house and his family, and together we made quite a cavalcade as we went up hill and down hill, and up hill and down hill again. By and by, we reached a long ridge, called by the Indians “the tortuous ridge,” which zigzagged in a westerly direction, and along it lay the hunting trail.</p>
			<p>The sun grew hot; Warren and I were drenched with perspiration as we plodded on. Every now and then Me-chah’-pe gave us an encouraging word, when we showed signs of lagging. We were determined to keep on, for were we not going to a buffalo hunt! The heat increased. The dogs did not now chase each other and run after birds as when we started out, but let loose their tongues and panted, keeping close to the shadows of the horses. On we all trudged, while the one baby slept on its mother’s back, its little head rocking from side to side with the motion of her steps.</p>
			<p>As we reached an elevated point on the ridge, Me-chah’-pe shaded his face with his hand and scanned the horizon. Far ahead of us his experienced eye caught sight of an object, like a mere speck. He pointed it out to us, saying, “There’s somebody coming.”</p>
			<p>Warren and I looked at each other in alarm, and then kept our eyes on the speck, which grew larger and larger as the distance between it and us lessened.</p>
			<p>“The horse looks like one of your father’s,” said Me-chah’-pe to me. “I think it is someone looking for you!”</p>
			<p>My heart sank When I recognized the horse as father’s, and the rider as my uncle, and, for the first time in my life, I was not glad to meet him.</p>
			<p>Warren and I were captured, and there was no escape. We tried to be brave when Me-chah’-pe shook hands with us, as his party moved westward; but we were far from happy when, ignominiously mounted on father’s horse, one behind the other, we followed my uncle, who walked so rapidly that the animal had to trot now and then to keep up. The road over which we had so laboriously travelled on our outward way was soon retraced, and the sun still high when my uncle, who had wandered all night in search of us, turned us over to Graybeard.</p>
			<p>It was thought best to punish us; so Warren was taken to the top of the house and locked up in the attic, where he was to reflect upon the wrong he had committed in running away. But I am quite sure he thought more about the devil and the ghosts in that horrid place than of anything else.</p>
			<p>As for me, I was marched to the dining-room, placed with my back to one of the posts, and my arms brought around it and tied; then I was left alone in this uncomfortable position⁠—to repent.</p>
			<p>The afternoon was close and hot; the windows and doors were open, but the place was very quiet. Now and then I heard the cry of a bird, or the laughter of the happy wren. The time seemed very long as I stood there, with my arms thrown back around the post and my hands tied so that I could not defend myself against the flies that attacked my bare feet. A rooster came to the back door and entered the dining-room. He shied on discovering me; but, as I did not move, he began picking in the cracks of the floor. He spied my toe, looked at it curiously, turning his head from side to side, then stretched his neck and gave it a dab. I was in no mood to be amused by his actions, so I sent him flopping and squawking under the table. Recovering from his surprise, he ran around, sprang on the table, then on the sill of the open window, tossed up his head, flapped his wings, gave a lusty crow, and hopped out.</p>
			<p>Immediately I saw eight little fingers hook themselves on the outer edge of the windowsill, and a head with black hair held back by a rubber comb rise higher and higher until two bright eyes gazed right into mine. The head disappeared, and shortly after a little figure cautiously approached the door, looked all around, and then came up to me. It was Rosalie. Her bright smiling face threw a sunbeam into my gloomy little heart. Without saying a word she wiped the perspiration from my face with the corner of her apron; then she went away softly in the direction of the kitchen. Soon she returned with a tin cup having in it bits of ice. She took a lump and put it in my mouth, then stood looking in my face. After a while, she said, “I like you, don’t I?”</p>
			<p>“ ‘M h’m!” I assented with my mouth closed, nodding my head.</p>
			<p>“When we get big, we’re going to be married, ain’t we?”</p>
			<p>“ ‘M h’m!” again I answered.</p>
			<p>“We won’t send our children to this horrid old place, will we?”</p>
			<p>“ ‘M’m! ‘M’m!” I replied with emphasis, shaking my head and stamping the floor.</p>
			<p>The little sweetheart, seeing that the flies troubled my ankles, went out and came back with a linden branch and brushed away the pests. I slid to the floor and sat down with my legs stretched out. Rosalie dropped down too, and sat whisking away the flies.</p>
			<p>Gradually things took on queer shapes, and the sounds seemed to come from afar; there was a moment of confusion and then⁠—I found myself on a wide prairie. Heavy clouds were swiftly approaching; the thunder rolled long and loud, and the lightning darted hither and thither. Off in the distance I saw a forest. I pushed toward it with all my strength so as to take shelter before the storm should come upon me; but as I labored on there crept over me a consciousness of a weight upon my back which, hitherto, I had not noticed. It retarded my progress, and from time to time I was obliged to stop and give a little spring to shift the burden higher up. A cry of terror came from the thing I was carrying; then I knew it was little Rosalie. I tried to speak words of encouragement to her, but my strength was fast failing. Great drops of rain fell, and the wind drove the dust into my face, blinding me. I tottered on with my load, but the timber was still far away. A vivid flash, a deafening crash, and I fell to the ground with a cry. I tried to rise, but my legs and arms were as though dead.</p>
			<p>With a start I opened my eyes. The room was darkened; there was a great commotion; all through the house, windows were being rapidly closed and the doors swung to with a bang. A terrific storm had arisen, and the building was in danger of destruction. Rosalie lay asleep with her head resting on my knees.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
